Business casual is an ambiguously defined dress code that has been adopted by many professional and white-collar workplaces in Western countries. It entails neat yet casual attire and is generally more casual than informal attire but more formal than casual or smart casual attire. Casual Fridays preceded widespread acceptance of business casual attire in many offices.
The basic technique stands in contrast to hunt and peck typing in which the typist keeps his or her eyes on the source copy at all times. Touch typing also involves the use of the home row method, where typists keep their wrists up, rather than resting them on a desk or keyboard (which can cause carpal tunnel syndrome). To avoid this, typists should sit up tall, leaning slightly forward from the waist, place their feet flat on the floor in front of them with one foot slightly in front of the other, and keep their elbows close to their sides with forearms slanted slightly upward to the keyboard; fingers should be curved slightly and rest on the home row.
In one study of average computer users, the average rate for transcription was 33 words per minute, and 19 words per minute for composition. In the same study, when the group was divided into "fast", "moderate" and "slow" groups, the average speeds were 40 wpm, 35 wpm, and 23 wpm respectively. An average professional typist reaches 50 to 80 wpm, while some positions can require 80 to 95 wpm (usually the minimum required for dispatch positions and other typing jobs), and some advanced typists work at speeds above 120 wpm. Two-finger typists, sometimes also referred to as "hunt and peck" typists, commonly reach sustained speeds of about 37 wpm for memorized text and 27 wpm when copying text, but in bursts may be able to reach speeds of 60 to 70 wpm. From the 1920s through the 1970s, typing speed (along with shorthand speed) was an important secretarial qualification and typing contests were popular and often publicized by typewriter companies as promotional tools.
The first personnel management department started at the National Cash Register Co. in 1900. The owner, John Henry Patterson, organized a personnel department to deal with grievances, discharges and safety, and training for supervisors on new laws and practices after several strikes and employee lockouts. During the 1970s, companies experienced globalization, deregulation, and rapid technological change which caused the major companies to enhance their strategic planning and focus on ways to promote organizational effectiveness. This resulted in developing more jobs and opportunities for people to show their skills which were directed to effective applying employees toward the fulfillment of individual, group, and organizational goals. Many years later the major/minor of human resource management was created at universities and colleges also known as business administration.
Frank Edward McGurrin, a court stenographer from Salt Lake City, Utah who taught typing classes, reportedly invented touch typing in 1888. On a standard keyboard for English speakers the home row keys are: "ASDF" for the left hand and "JKL;" for the right hand. The keyboard is called a QWERTY keyboard because these are the first six letters on the keyboard. Most modern computer keyboards have a raised dot or bar on the home keys for the index fingers to help touch typists maintain and rediscover the correct position on the keyboard quickly with no need to look at the keys. More recently, the ability to touch type on touchscreen phones has been made possible with the use of specialized virtual keyboard software for touch typing.
Today, historians relate that, as a general rule, buying and selling securities was very much unorganized before the year 1792. Every person who owned a security faced the problem of finding interested buyers who might consider the purchase of a debt-free investment. This meant most people were somewhat slow in investing in stocks and bonds because these securities could not readily be converted into money. We have been told that an interesting number of traders and merchants agreed to try to do something to help correct the situation. At this first crucial meeting, they decided that it was a good idea to visit regularly on a daily basis to buy and sell securities. The group of leaders, whose meeting place was under an old, tall cottonwood tree, found the needed time to plot the financial future of our nation. We know from reading the old records that the original team who met together long ago in May became the very first members of the New York Stock Exchange. The New York Stock Exchange is still operating. Other stock exchanges conduct business in many countries around the world. Thousands and thousands of stocks and bonds are bought and sold each day.
A virtual assistant (typically abbreviated to VA) is generally self-employed and provides professional administrative, technical, or creative assistance to clients remotely from a home office.
One study examining 30 subjects, of varying different styles and expertise, has found minimal difference in typing speed between touch typists and self-taught hybrid typists. According to the study, "The number of fingers does not determine typing speed... People using self-taught typing strategies were found to be as fast as trained typists... instead of the number of fingers, there are other factors that predict typing speed... fast typists... keep their hands fixed on one position, instead of moving them over the keyboard, and more consistently use the same finger to type a certain letter." To quote doctoral candidate Anna Feit: "We were surprised to observe that people who took a typing course, performed at similar average speed and accuracy, as those that taught typing to themselves and only used 6 fingers on average" (Wikipedia)
December 17, 1903, is the birth date of all airplanes. Orville and Wilbur Wright started building gliders in 1900. In 1903, they built a motor and propeller for their glider. Orville made the first flight, which lasted 12 seconds, and flew 120 feet. Wilbur's flight was 852 feet in 59 seconds. These first flights in 1903 were just the start of the evolution of planes. By the year 1909, Bleriot had crossed the English Channel. By the year 1912, a two-piece plywood fuselage was built for greater strength. By the 1930s, the all-metal fuselage was tried, and it soon appeared in DC3s. From the Wrights' 1903 motor and prop came the engines for the 1950 turbojet that generated at least 19,600 pounds of thrust. The big Boeing 747 has four engines with 50,000 pounds of thrust each. The future holds an advanced super-sonic jet with a saving of almost 40 percent in fuel usage.
The fastest typing speed ever, 216 words per minute, was achieved by Stella Pajunas-Garnand from Chicago in 1946 in one minute on an IBM electric. As of 2005, writer Barbara Blackburn was the fastest English language typist in the world, according to The Guinness Book of World Records. Using the Dvorak Simplified Keyboard, she had maintained 150 wpm for 50 minutes, and 170 wpm for shorter periods, with a peak speed of 212 wpm. Blackburn, who failed her QWERTY typing class in high school, first encountered the Dvorak keyboard in 1938, quickly learned to achieve very high speeds, and occasionally toured giving speed-typing demonstrations during her secretarial career. She appeared on Late Night with David Letterman on January 24, 1985, but felt that Letterman made a spectacle of her. Blackburn died in April 2008. (Wikipedia)
One morning my friend and I were thinking about how we could plan our summer break away from school. Driving from our own state to several nearby states would help to expand our limited funds. Inviting six other friends to accompany us would lower our car expenses. Stopping at certain sites would also help us stretch our truly limited travel budget. Yesterday I engaged in an interesting and enlightening discussion about finances. I found it difficult to imagine that during my lifetime I might well earn at least one-half million dollars. It is also possible that I might spend as much as one-half million during the same period. The really difficult thing for me to do will be to save more of the half-million than I spend. Thinking about today's high cost of living makes this seem an impossible task for most. Last week I asked a friend to talk with me and a girl-friend about college. Our friend is the Dean of Women at a nearby college. The Dean and her staff spend much of their time talking to students who plan to go to college. The first thing she said was to work very hard each day in high school. Good grades are most important for being accepted. Being on time for classes and having a good view toward all phases of the school life are two other things to remember.
Web designers are expected to have an awareness of usability and if their role involves creating mark up then they are also expected to be up to date with web accessibility guidelines. The different areas of web design include web graphic design; interface design; authoring, including standardised code and proprietary software; user experience design; and search engine optimization.
The bikers rode down the long and narrow path to reach the city park. When they reached a good spot to rest, they began to look for signs of spring. The sun was bright, and a lot of bright red and blue blooms proved to all that warm spring days were the very best. Spring rides were planned. They had a burger at the lake and then rode farther up the mountain. As one rider started to get off his bike, he slipped and fell. One of the other bikers saw him fall but could do nothing to help him. Neither the boy nor the bike got hurt. After a brief stop, everyone was ready to go on. All the bikers enjoyed the nice view when they came to the top. All the roads far below them looked like ribbons. A dozen or so boats could be seen on the lake. It was very quiet and peaceful and no one wished to leave. As they set out on their return, they all enjoyed the ease of pedaling. The bikers came upon a new bike trail. This route led to scenery far grander than that seen from the normal path. The end of the day brought laughs and cheers from everyone. The fact that each person was very, very tired did not keep anyone from eagerly planning for the exciting ride to come.
Engineers, as practitioners of engineering, are people who invent, design, analyze, build, and test machines, systems, structures and materials to fulfill objectives and requirements while considering the limitations imposed by practicality, regulation, safety, and cost. The work of engineers forms the link between scientific discoveries and their subsequent applications to human and business needs and quality of life.